Parabellum D


        You are a near-future middle manager in a PMC megacorporation.  Your mission: Use military force to drive your comapany’s competitiors bankrupt.  Parabellum is a tabletop war/resource management game where everything costs in-game money, and the last player still liquid at the end of a battle is the winner.  At the beginning of play, players buy combat units, (represented by 1” scale minis and associated tracking sheets) as well as fuel, ammunition, and logistic bases to keep those units functional.  
        Players take turns moving their units, attacking opposing players’ units, expanding their supply lines, and purchasing new units to replace those lost.  The distance that units may move, and the number of times a unit may attack are limited by their supply of fuel, and ammunition respectively.  Units that are running low on resources, but are adjacent to a supply line, may refuel and reload instead of attacking that turn. Fuel and ammunition distributed in this way cost credits.  If a player doesn’t have credits to spend, their unit will be unable to move, (if out of fuel,) or unable to attack (if out of ammo.)  
As stated, each player begins the game with a Down Payment of Credits, which they can use to purchase their initial units and spare supplies.  As players achieve success on the battlefield, they draw Business Opportunity cards.  Business Opportunity Cards can be played at any time to provide Credits, but money acquired this way comes with strings attached, and the debts and obligations come due in between Battles.
Battles have a set of Objectives. Once one of the players achieves the Battle’s Objectives the Battle is concluded, and that player is entitled to a Completion Bonus. Units left on the map by all players after the end of a Battle are lost to the winner as Salvage unless their owners pay Transportation Costs to remove them from the board, thereby saving them for the next Battle.  Units  left on the map as Salvage, or those Transported off the board by players can be converted into Credits at ½ their purchase price (prorated by their Condition) by Scrapping them.  The player who achieves their Objectives also gets to choose the next Battle Scenario of the Campaign.
In between Battles, players must first resolve the Contingencies tied to any Business Opportunity Cards they have in play. If a player is out of Credits to cover their Contingencies, they must either play any Business opportunity Cards they have in their hand, or Scrap any units and Resell any Supplies they have in reserve, until they can cover those obligations.  If a player has played all their Business Opportunities, Scrapped all their Units, and Resold all their supplies, and still has outstanding Contingencies, they are declared Bankrupt, and are eliminated from the game.    
After Contingencies have been resolved, players may use any remaining Credits to purchase new Units, or to buy more Supplies, like Ammunition or Fuel. They may also pay to Repair the Units they Transported  off the map from the previous Battle.  Finally, once the next Scenario has been chosen, the next Battle will begin!
Victory in Parabellum Inc. is achieved as much through tactics, as business accumen.  In standard play, the last player that hasn’t gone Bankrupt is the winner. (However, Zaibatsu Victory, or a victory of a business partnership between two players, is an additional victory option.)  Players apply financial pressure to their opponents by inflicting losses and frustrating each other’s efforts to achieve Objectives, forcing them to take Business Opportunities, the Contingencies of which they may not be able to meet.  


        Each game begins with a Map Pack, and a Campaign of Objectives.  Each player receives a Down Payment with which they purchase Units, Supplies, and pays for the logistics of delivering those to the Battle.  The first Battle for each Campaign is fixed by the Map Pack, but the winner of the first Battle chooses what Objective will be set for the next Battle.
