
Parabellum Inc.
Se vis lucrum, para bellum.

In the not too-distant future, mankind has escaped the troubled cradle of Earth.  We've ventured deep into the stars in search of opportunity, but of course, where there's opportunity, there are those ready to capitalize.  The governments of old Earth lay claim to colonies and fiefdoms across the milky way, but the reality is rather different.  Without the ability to project power that deeply into space, their alleged holdings are little more than a formality.  Beyond the reach of their planet-bound armies, the only authority is maintained by money and the control of resources.  

And out here, almost all the money and resources are held by less than a dozen companies, cartels, zaibatsu, and conglomerates.  These companies pull strings in governments the galaxy over, making them dance like puppets to the amusement of their shareholders.  Sailing between the stars, their private armies are the only source of stability and authority for those who've left earth.  Planets are conquered and either turned into gilded commercial distopias, or stripped to their mantles and used to build the industrial empires that rule the galaxy. They are the military, they are the law, they call the shots, and they answer only to their shareholders.

You are an Executive Sector Manager.  Your job is to protect the business interests of your company from any and all threats, from without or within.  The tools at your disposal are the vast professional armies provided conditionally by the company.  That condition, of course, is that you generate value for the company with your campaign. The Board expects a return on their investment.  With success, comes riches and influence kings and tycoons of old could only imagine, but if you don't deliver, you could be relegated to the killing fields yourself.

Gameplay Thesis: Your company's primacy in the sector is contingent on your defense and expansion of their holdings.  You command an army represented by miniatures on a square grid map.  Some miniatures represent units of troops with various capabilites including movement, fortification, reconnaisance, and assault. Some represent logistical units that transport and maintain the infrastructure your army requires.  While others represent the supplies and ammunition they need to keep up the fight.  But remember, The Company won't just give you unlimited resources to achieve these goals.  You have to be efficient with your personell, your equipment, ammunition, and supplies.  There's a cost associated with everything, and the only way to victory is to bleed your competitiors dry.
The game is made up of a series of Skirmishes, called a Campaign. Each Campaign comes as a set of maps and scenario booklets which lay out the terrain, Starting Conditions, Victory Conditions, and Budgets.  Both sides of a Skirmish are assigned a starting area, certain starting units, and a Budget for purchasing equipment, ammunition, and supplies, hiring personel and transportation services, and for Soft Power operations.  A Skirmish ends when either a player withdraws from the Skirmish, a player runs out of Budget, or one of the player's Victory Conditions are met.  The Campaign ends when one player's Campaign Budget is expended, and they're demoted from their position as Executive Sector Manager by The Board.
Play area:
	The play area is made up of a skirmish map, a privacy screen for each player, and an off-map but visible pre-deployment area.  The map represents the geography, terrain, and obstacles on which the skirmish will be fought.  Each player commands units represented on the map by 1" scale miniatures.  There are 24 Classes of units, each with their own miniature.  
	Each unit has different statistics, capabilities, costs, and requirements.  These are tracked by the use of cards, kept behind the player's screen.  Each unit's card specifies which miniature it should be represented by on the map.  Multiple different kinds of units are represented by the same mini, and as such the mini on the map only provides limited information to the opponent about what they're up against.
	The miniatures have a mast sticking up from them, which is used to hold colored beads for identifying which miniature represents which units.  The exact colors used to identify each mini is up to the player, but there should not be any duplicates, and it's reccomended that the top bead be a particular color depending on which player the unit belongs to.  Each player's company has particular livery which is a good choice for this purpose.  The cards behind the screen track each unit's special capabilities, its attack and defense power, it's available supplies for movement, its ammunition available to make attacks, it's troop strength, and any cargo it may be carrying.  
	All units must be supplied and loaded with ammunition to stay active, and those supplies and ammo exist on the board as miniatures as well.  They can be moved by other units, attacked, destroyed, and captured by enemies. There are also barricades and obstacle miniatures which prevent movement.
	Each Campaign begins with the random selection of one Agressor, and one Defender.  the Agressor then can select which Skirmish they wish to initiate, and the budget they wish to allot to the attack.  The map for that skirmish is then set up on the play area, and the initial set-up phase begins.  
Set-up Phase:
	The Aggressor must purchase their equipment, supplies, and ammunition, hire their soldiers, and muster their units first.  Available equipment, supplies, ammunition, and personel are kept behind the Aggressor's player screen.  The Aggressor may then muster as many units as they have the necessary resources, placing them beside the play area in their pre-deployment area, but the Aggressor may not place their units on the board yet.
	The initial budget for the defender in the skirmish is set by the scenario, and the defender must also set their units on the map first.  The Defender may purchase supplies, ammo, and equipment, hire personel, and muster their units just like the Aggressor, but the Defender may place their mustered units straight onto the map based on the terrain, the Aggressor's budget, and the units the Aggressor has mustered in pre-deployment.  The Defender doesn't need to pay to deploy these units, and the defender may also entrench any unit they place to a level of 1 unless the scenario states otherwise.  There are areas delineated on each map, specifying where each player may deploy their units.  In general, the Defender may place their units fairly freely, whereas the Aggressor has a small area in which they can deploy their units.  
	After the Defender has placed their initial units and supplies, the Aggressor may deploy their units and supplies.  Deployment involves paying for transportation of units into the skirmish.  The deployment costs for each unit are specified in the scenario booklet, and vary based on which class of unit is being deployed, and where.  Standard deployment onto clear terrain is the least expensive, with deployment onto rough or urban terrain being more costly, and deployment onto water, or deployment outside of the designated deployment area costing much more in addition to requiring specialized units.  After paying the deployment cost, a unit may be moved from the pre-deployment area onto a square on the map inside the player's designated deployment area.  
	Finally, after the initial forces are deployed, regular play may begin, with the Aggressor going first.
 Stages of play:
	Each turn is divided into four stages: the Movement Phase, the Logistic Phase, the Attack Phase, and the Boardroom Phase.  
Movement phase: 
	Each unit capable of moving has a movement speed, measured in squares per turn.  It may move that many quares in any of the 4 cardinal directions, North, South, East, and West during the movement phase.  Units may not move diagonaly, and any squares diagonal to each other are considered to be 1 square apart. Units must move one at a time, and may not move through map squares containing other units (friendly or not) or obstacles such as impassible terrain and barricades.  Units may use part of their movement, wait for another friendly unit to move, and then use the rest of their movement, but only during the same movement phase.  Unused movement at the end of the movement phase is lost.  If a unit choses to move, it must have a supply count of at least 1, and after moving, it's supply count is reduced by 1.  
	If a unit choses not to move, it may entrench itself instead.  Entrenching allows the unit to ignore one loss inflicted by an attacking unit for each level of entrenching it is dug-in.  If a unit choses to entrench itself it must have a supply count of at least 1, but the supply count is not depleted in this case.  By taking its movement phase to entrench, the unit adds one to its dug-in level.  If an entrenched unit wishes to move, it must first take one movement phase to dig itself out.  If a unit chooses to dig itself out, it must have a supply count of at least 1, but the supply count is not depleted in this case.  After taking a turn to dig out, it is no longer entrenched, no longer benefits from whatever level of entrenchment it had, and will be free to move during the movement phase next turn.
	If a unit is smaller than a full grid square, (I.e. a 1/2"x1/2" infantry unit, or a 1"x1/2" truck,) and it has at least one supply available, it may reposition itself within its square at no supply cost.  It may not, however, travel into another grid quare without using its movement.  Nor may it reposition if it's entrenched unless it first digs itself out.  
	Next, after all units have been moved, any units in reserves may be deployed.  Reserve units are kept in the pre-deployment area until this phase, when they can be deployed to specified squares on the map.  Doing so has a requisite cost depending on the scenario.  Units being deployed onto water squares must be loaded onto a naval vessel while still in reserve, before they can be deployed there.  Certain units can be air dropped to any square on the map for an additional cost if a transport plane air asset is available.  Certain units can be orbitally dropped onto any square on the map for an even greater cost.
	Any unit being deployed to a square adjacent to an unfriendly unit immediately allows the unfriendly unit to make an early extra attack against it. (see Attack phase, below.) This attack costs the unfriendly unit one ammunition as normal, but doesn't count as the unfriendly unit's attack for that turn, nor does the deployed unit get an opportunity to return fire.
	Finally, any unit in a friendly deployment square may be withdrawn at this point. The cost to do so is half the cost of deploying the same unit. If you chose to do so, the unit is removed from the board and placed into the pre-deployment area. This can be used for transporting supplies and ammunition to the battlefield, resupplying units, reorganizing units, as well as for protecting a valuable unit from attack, or any other reason.    
Logistics phase:
	After the Movement phase, the logistics phase begins.  During the Logistics phase, any unit which shares a square with a unit of supplies, ammunition, is carrying a unit of supplies or ammo, or is adjacent to another friendly unit carrying a unit of supplies or ammo, may onload those, or resupply itself with them.  When a unit of supplies or ammunition is onloaded, the mini representing that supply or ammo is removed from the board and placed onto the unit's card in the Cargo area.  Or, if onloaded from one unit to another, is transfered from one unit's cargo to the other.  When a unit resupplies itself with supplies, the supply mini is removed from play, and the unit's supply counter is incremented up according to the unit's resupply cost. (See the section on mustering in the boardroom phase for details)  Likewise with ammunition, The ammo mini is removed from either the board, or from the cargo of the unit carrying it, and the supplied unit's ammo counter is incremented up according to its ammo cost.
	If a unit states that it can be used to transport certain other units as well, units can be loaded onto it or unloaded during the Logistics phase.  like loading supplies and ammo, the units must be on the same square or adjacent.  Unless they have a special attribute that allows it, units that are unloaded cannot attack the same turn they were unloaded, nor can they be supplied or perform any other Logistics phase actions until next turn.    
	Engineering vehicles and support vehicles also do their work during the logistics phase.  If a unit was destroyed the previous turn, an adjacent tractor unit can convert the destroyed unit into its maximum supply count worth of supplies and onload those supplies.  Excavator units can build or remove barricades at the cost of one supply.  Bridging equipment can deploy during the logistics phase at the cost of one supply.  And any other specialist engineering equipment takes its actions during the logistics phase.
	Reconnaisance is also done during the logistics phase.  Any combat unit which is within two sqares of an unfriendly unit may, in lieu of taking a direct attack during the next phase, instead make an observation on that unit.  In so doing the player making the observation points out the unit in question, and the opposing player must tell the observing player: 1) The unit Type, 2) The Unit's Troop Strength, 3) Whether or not the unit is carrying anything in its cargo, and 4) Whether or not the unit has run out of supplies.  Finally, any unit that has been the subject of observation is vulnerable to artillery fire, and suffers a -2 penalty to its defense rolls against special attacks in the coming Attack Phase.
Attack phase: 
	After the Logistics phase, the Attack phase begins.  First, special attacks are made (discussed below,) and afterward the Regular Attack phase begins. Each combat unit has an attack value, defense value, troop strength, and range, which are listed on the units card. The unit's range specifies how many squares distant the unit can attack.  Each unit may make one attack against one other unit each turn if they have at least one ammunition available.  If a unit makes an attack , its ammunition count is decremented at the end of the Attack phase.  
	To make an attack, the attacking player specifies the unit making the attack, as well as the unit they're attacking.  The attacker then rolls their attack dice, the unit's attack value and defense value are each superimposed on an image of a die.   The attack value specifies which dice to roll for making an attack.  (I.e. an attack value of 6, means 6-sided dice are used.)  The unit's current troop strength determines the number of dice to roll in an attack.  
	In response to an attack, the defending player rolls their defense dice.  The defending unit's defense value specifies which dice to roll, and like in an attack, the number of dice to roll is determined by the defending unit's troop strength.  The results of the rolls are compared, and the defender pairs any of their defense dice with any equal or lower attack dice results.  Any pair of matched or beaten dice are removed, and each remaining attack die becomes a loss.  
	After all attacks are completed, the defending units' troop strength is reduced by the total losses accumulated during the attack phase.  If a unit's troop strength is reduced to 0, the unit is destroyed, and it's figure is laid on its side, in place on the map.  If a unit's troop strength is not reduced to zero, it gets the opportunity to return fire.  
	After the attacker's attack phase is complete, any attacked unit may choose one unit that attacked it for return fire (if it has at least one ammunition available).  Return fire is processed similarly to the original attack.  The retaliating unit rolls it's attack dice based on its attack value and remaining troop strength.  The original attacking unit rolls defense dice based on its defense value and troop strength.  Any attack dice matched or beaten by the defense dice are removed, and any remaining become losses inflicted on the attacker.  These return fire losses immediately reduce the attacking units troop strength before the next phase begins.
Special Attack phase:
	Artillery, Naval bombardment, Airstrikes, Orbital Weapons, and other irregular warfare is handled before the regular attack phase.  Naval, Air, and Orbital warfare are optional and vary in availibility depending on the scenario, and will be discussed separately.
	If a unit is specified as an artillery unit (as denoted on its unit card,) and did not move this turn (entrenching does not count, but repositioning does,) it can make indirect fire attacks during the special attack phase.  The unit's indirect attack die, its indirect fire range (minimum and maximum,) and the number of attacks it can make are specified above the unit's normal attack and defense value on the unit card. If a unit has taken losses of 4 or more, the number of attacks it can make each turn are reduced by half, and if a unit has taken more than 6 losses it can only make a single indirect fire attack per turn.
	To make indirect fire attacks, the unit's ammunition count is reduced by 1, and the player specifies which units will be the target of the attacks.  The player then rolls one of the indirect fire dice for each attack it makes against a target.  The defending unit rolls as many of its defense dice as it currently has in troop strength.  If the indirect fire die rolls higher than any of the defense dice, one loss is inflicted on the defending unit.  If any of the defense dice roll equal to or higher than the indirect fire die, no losses are inflicted.  There is no return fire for attacks made in the special attack phase.
	Indirect fire has both a minimum and maximum range.  An artillery unit may not make indirect fire attacks against a unit too close, however, during the regular attack phase it may make a regular attack with its regular attack value, according to the regular attack rules. If it made an indirect attack that turn, it may not make a regular attack until the next turn. 
Boardroom phase:
	After all losses and damage are calculated, the player's boardroom phase begins.  During the boardroom phase, Supplies, Amunition, and equipment can be purchased, personel can be hired, and units can be mustered and placed into reserves.  All soft power operations happen during this phase as well, but they will be discussed separately.  
	If a player has enough credits, they may purchase new units during their boardroom phase.  To purchase a unit, a player must mark off the unit's cost, and place the unit card in a "standby" pile behind their screen.  Each unit's card lists its cost below the unit illustration.  
	The player may also purchase Supplies and Ammunition, the prices and availibility for which are listed in the scenario's booklet.  Some scenarios limit the amount of supplies and ammuinition that can be purchased each turn. To purchase these, the player must mark off the required number of credits, and then place the ammo and supply tokens into that same standby pile.  
	Personel must be hired from the local mercenary pool.  The price and availability of personel are also listed in the scenario booklet.  There's a finite pool of personel that can be hired for each skirmish, and as the pool becomes depleted, each hire becomes more expensive.  When players hire personel, personel tokens are placed into a human resources pool behind the player's screens.
	Before units can be placed into play, they must be mustered.  To muster a unit you must have purchased the unit, and have it in your standby pile.  You also must staff it with personnel from your human resources pool, and supply it with supplies and ammunition from the standby area.  The Ammunition and supply costs are listed on the unit's card, and signify how many supply/ammo points on the card are replenished by each supply/ammo token. (I.e. A tank, with a supply cost of 1, and a full supply capacity of 5 will require 5 supplies to muster.  Whereas a unit of augmented infantry with a supply cost of 3 and a full supply capacity of 5 will only require 2.)  Finally, retrieve the miniature specified on the unit card, place beads on the specified mini's mast and the unit's card to identify it, move the card into your active unit area behind your screen, and place the miniature into the pre-deployment area in front of your screen.  You will be able to deploy your unit at the end of the movement phase of the next turn.  
	Units in the pre-deployment area can be supplied and reloaded with ammunition directly from the supplies in the standby pile.  Supplies and ammo may also be onloaded as cargo to any unit in pre-deployment, (if it has cargo space available,) or offloaded from a units cargo into the standby pile.  This is the primary method by which supplies and ammunition are brought to and from the battlefield.
Units in the pre-deployment area can also be reorganized if they’ve taken losses.  Reorganization involves combining two or more compatible units at partial strength into one unit at full(er) strength.  Units of the same class, (units using the same kind of miniature) can be reorganized into a single unit.  The resulting unit will be of the same type as the lowest cost unit used in the reorganization.  After reorganization, the resulting unit has a troop strength equal to the sum of the troop strengths used to form it, up to a maximum of 10.  The supply and ammunition counts are summed as well, up to the unit’s maximum.  For each extra troop strength left over, add one personnel back to your human resources pool.  For extra supplies or ammunition above maximum you may add one supply or ammunition to your standby pile if there is enough left to equate to a full supply token according to the unit’s supply or ammunition cost. (I.e. A unit of IFV’s with a supply cost of 1, and 3 extra supplies, adds 3 units of supplies to the standby pile.  However a mortar team unit with a supply cost of 3, and 4 extra supplies, only adds 1.  And a unit of supply trucks with a supply cost of 2 and only 1 extra supply doesn’t add any, and the extra supplies are wasted.)  

Scenario Specific Rules:
Depending on the scenario and the choices of the players, certain kinds of units, as well as certain actions during play may or may not be available.  These are discussed here separately, now that the basic flow of play has been laid out.
Terrain:
Each map has a particular geography and layout.  Different squares on the map represent different kinds of terrain.  And different kinds of terrain impart bonuses or penalties to the units on, adjacent to, entering, or leaving a particular square.  There are 5 basic terrain types: Clear, Rough, Obscured, Obstacle, and Water.  
Clear terrain includes roads, fields, beaches, and badlands.  Clear terrain imposes no penalties to movement, and offers no bonuses to defense.  Road squares cost one half of a square of movement for wheeled or tracked vehicles to enter.  Roads are Destructible Terrain, see the Destructible Terrain section for details.
Rough terrain includes riverbeds, Rubble, slopes, and dunes. Rough terrain costs two squares of movement for a wheeled vehicle to enter.  Rough terrain imposes a -1 penalty to any unit’s regular attack rolls, when the attack is made from the rough terrain square to an adjacent non-rough, non-marsh square.
Obscured Terrain includes Urban, forested, brushland, and earthworks. Obscured terrain costs 2 squares of movement for a wheeled or tracked vehicle to enter.  Obscured terrain offers a +1 bonus to all defense dice rolls by any unit on an obscured terrain square.  Any regular attack or counterattack made between units on opposite sides of a square of obscured terrain suffer a -1 penalty to each attack dice roll.  A scenario booklet may specify certain urban squares on the map to have been “evacuated” in which case those squares’ movement penalties are ignored.  Earthworks squares may not be entered by any unit besides infantry. Earthworks squares offer a +2 bonus to all defense dice rolls for units on an earthworks square.  	
Obstacles include Cliffs, Megaliths, and Fortifications.  Obstacle squares cannot be entered by any unit that doesn’t have a special attribute that allows them to.  Regular attacks cannot be made between units on opposite sides of an obstacle.  Barricades set up by engineering vehicles change whatever square they’re set up on to be considered an obstacle.
Water Terrain includes Oceans, Rivers, Lakes, Bridges, and Marshes.  Oceans, rivers, and lakes can only be traversed by naval or amphibious units. Marshes can be freely traversed by amphibious units, or may be entered by naval or walking units at the cost of their entire turn’s movement.  Marshes impose a -2 penalty to any unit’s regular attack rolls when the attack is made from the marsh to an adjacent non-marsh square.  Units on marsh squares cannot make indirect fire attacks. 
Bridges may be traversed by naval or land-based units with some restrictions.  Land units may travel along the length of a bridge as if it were clear land.  Land units may not cross the bridge widthwise, nor may they enter a bridge square from any square to either side of the bridge.  Naval units may cross under a bridge as if it were a normal river square.  Naval units may not travel along the length of a bridge, nor may they end their movement phase under a bridge space.  Amphibious units can travel under a bridge using the rules for naval units, OR they can travel along the length of a bridge using the rules for land units.  Amphibious units may not travel part-way along a bridge and then enter an adjacent water square, nor may they travel under the bridge via the water, and then begin traveling along it. Bridges are destructible terrain, see the Destructible Terrain section. Bridges can also be erected by appropriate engineering vehicles over water squares adjacent to clear land squares.  See the Engineering section for details.
Special Terrain Features:
Scenarios will often include special terrain features detailed in the scenario booklet.  These include special buildings, command bases, air bases, naval bases, and other tactical objectives.  Unless otherwise stated, special terrain features like these are destructible terrain, and generally provide other gameplay benefits, bonuses, or represent objectives to the company in control of them.  
Command bases are special terrain that counts as land unit deployment squares.  They also count as Obscured Terrain, and provide a +2 bonus to all defense dice rolls to any unit on the base, so long as the base is friendly.  So long as there are supplies are cached on a Command base, and the base is friendly, those supplies may be used to resupply any unit on that base, at no cost to the movement phase.  If a base is Contested, the deployment squares may not be used.  A base is considered friendly so long as more of your units are on the base than your opponent’s.  A base is considered Contested if there are both your, and your opponent’s units on the base. 
Naval bases act mostly the same as Command Bases.  They count as obscured terrain, and provide a +2 bonus to al defense dice rolls to any Naval unit on the base.  Naval bases must be adjacent to water, and the Naval base is made up of two kinds of squares, pier squares, and facility squares.  Pier squares count as Naval asset deployment squares.  These squares can be occupied freely by naval or amphibious units. These Naval Units can be resupplied from supplies and ammunition cached in any of the base’s facility squares. The Facility squares can also be occupied by land units, and those land units can be resupplied from supplies and ammunition either cached in those facility squares, or from supplies loaded on Naval assets that are on the pier squares.  Land units can also be loaded on, and unloaded from, Naval assets, between any Naval or Amphibious unit on a pier space, and any facility space in the same naval base.  A Naval base cannot perform any of these functions if it is contested.  And provides no additional attack or defense bonuses to land units there.  
Air Bases and Airfields grant the controlling player the ability to deploy Air Assets during their special attack phase.  Airbases count as obscured terrain, while airfields count as clear terrain.  
Air bases can vary in layout, but they consist of two kinds of squares; runway squares, and hangar squares.  Runway squares count as Air Asset Deployment Squares.  During each turn’s movement phase, but before deployment, Air Assets may be moved between unoccupied hangar squares and unoccupied runway squares freely, and without cost. (On the same airbase)   Air assets on Hangar Squares gain a +2 bonus to all defense dice rolls.  Air Assets on either runway or hangar spaces may be resupplied from supplies cached anywhere on the airbase. Land units on the airbase can be loaded on, or unloaded from any Air Asset on the Airbase.  
Airfields count as runway squares only.  Air assets on an airfield can be resupplied from supplies and ammunition on squares adjacent to the airfield.  Land units on squares adjacent to the airfield can be loaded onto any Air Asset on the airfield, and Land units carried by Air Assets on the airfield can be offloaded onto any unoccupied square adjacent to the Airfield.  
In order to sortie, an Air Asset must be on a runway space at the beginning of the special attack phase. For details, see the Air Assets section.  Neither Airbases, nor Airfields can perform any of their functions if they are contested.  
Naval Assets:
If a scenario takes place on a map with deployment areas including water squares, and/or naval bases in your control, then Amphibious, Torpedo Boat, Naval Cargo, and Lander-type units can be deployed there.  Amphibious units can travel freely over water, marsh, and clear land terrain, but may not travel over any terrain or obstruction that would penalize travel for a wheeled vehicle. Landers, Naval Cargo units, and Torpedo Boats can travel freely over water squares only, although Landers may end their movement phase on a clear land square so long as it is adjacent to the water. If it does so, the next time it wants to move it must first use one turn's movement phase to return to the water square it landed from. (It may not cross a land square to reach a water square on the other side of it.)
Some scenarios may include heavier naval forces under the control of one or both players at the beginning of the skirmish.  The exact rules for how these units are used and what they're capable of are laid out in the scenario's booklet.  In general however, these larger naval units can not be bought, mustered, or deployed, and are only available at the beginning of the skirmish.  Heavy Naval Assets may not enter marsh squares, nor may they pass through bridge squares without destroying the bridge first.  
Common heavy naval assets include: Battleships, Missile Cruisers, and Aircraft Carriers.  Heavy Naval Assets have capabilities similar to a combination of land units.  All heavy Naval assets can act as Anti-air units.  In addition, Battleships can return fire during the Special Attack Phase.  Missile cruisers can act as an anti-orbital platform, and can also dispatch  up to 2 VTOL aircraft as if they were an on-map airbase (with a hangar space of 0, and a runway space of 2.)  Aircraft carriers are treated the same as an on-map airbase, with a hangar space of 6, and a runway space of 4.  

